Document ServiceControl / ServicePulse support for authentication and SSL/TLS (#7947)
Particular/docs.particular.net: servicepulse/security/configuration/forward-headers.md

---
title: ServicePulse Forward Headers for Reverse Proxy Configuration
summary: How to enable and configure forward headers for ServicePulse
reviewed: 2026-01-14
component: ServicePulse
related:
- servicepulse/security/hosting-guide
- servicecontrol/security/configuration/forward-headers
---

> [!NOTE]
> This page is **not** relevant if the [ServicePulse static files have been extracted](/servicepulse/install-servicepulse-in-iis.md), and is being hosted in anything other than the [Container](/servicepulse/containerization/) or [Windows Service](/servicepulse/installation.md) hosting options provided. Forward header configuration is only required if using a reverse proxy.

When ServicePulse is deployed behind a reverse proxy that terminates SSL/TLS (like nginx, Traefik, or a cloud load balancer), you need to configure forwarded headers so ServicePulse correctly understands the original client request.

## Configuration

> There are two hosting options for ServiceControl, [Container](/servicepulse/containerization/) and [Windows Service](/servicepulse/installation.md). The container is configured via environment variables and the windows service is configured using command-line arguments. See the [Hosting Guide](../hosting-guide.md) for example usage of these configuration settings in conjustion with [Authentication](authentication.md) and [TLS](tls.md) configuration settings in a scenario based format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two hosting options for ServiceControl, [Container](/servicepulse/containerization/) and [Windows Service](/servicepulse/installation.md). The container is configured via environment variables, while the Windows Service is configured using command-line arguments. See the [Hosting Guide](../hosting-guide.md) for example usage of these configuration settings, along with [Authentication](authentication.md) and [TLS](tls.md), in a scenario-based format.
```
